# PolarFire SoC MSS User Crypto ECDSA Services Example

This example project demonstrates the usage of the User Crypto hardware block for 
the signature generation and verification using ECDSA service functions. It uses
**NIST-P384** elliptic curve for signature generation and verification. 

 - CALECDSASignHash() is used to generate digital signature.
 - CALECDSAVerifyHash() is used to verify the digital signature.

User can experiment with different standard elliptic curves supported by user-
crypto core by changing curve domain parameters.

Here's the list of supported NIST-P curves 
- *P192*, *P224*, *P256*, *P384*, *P512*

**NOTE** -: Athena core uses an Elliptic curve of the following format. 

> Y = X^3 - 3X + b  

The coefficient of X is fixed to a = -3 thus one should only choose a set of
domain parameters which is based on the above mentioned elliptic curve.
    
## How to use this example

On connecting PolarFire SoC Video kit J12 to the host PC, you should see 4 COM
port interfaces connected. To use this project configure the COM port
**interface1** as below:
 - 115200 baud
 - 8 data bits
 - 1 stop bit
 - no parity
 - no flow control

The example project will display instructions over the serial port. To execute
the particular service, user has to enter the required information as shown over
the serial port. This program also displays the return data from User Crypto
processor i.e.digital signature generation and verification.

### Generate Digital Signature

Select option '1' to generate a digital signature for ECDSA public-key
cryptographic service. The signature generation function take following
parameters as an input. 
1. *msg* -: message string 
2. *Gx,Gy* -: which is a generator point for NIST-P384 curve. 
3. *K* -: A random per message parameter. 
4. *modulus n* -: The order of cyclic group G 
5. *private_key* -: private key to encrypt the message.

This project uses **SHA384** algorithm to generate a unique Hash value from the 
given message string. The **CALECDSASignHash()** function performs signature
generation and after the successful generation program displays a success
message along with generated signature set {R,S} on the UART terminal. 

*NOTE* -: **b** parameter of P384 elliptic is fixed as far as this example is concerned. 

### Verify Digital Signature

Select option '2' to verify the digital signature set {R,S} generated by ECDSA
public key cryptographic services. The program takes a public key to verify the
message signature along with other domain parameters. The **CALECDSAVerifyHash()**
function performs ECDSA signature verification and after successful completion
it returns the result of verification process. An appropriate message will be
displayed on the UART terminal based on the returned result. 

**NOTE:** 
The ECDSA signature generation operation should be executed before executing ECDSA
signature verification operation.

## Target Hardware

This example project is targeted at PolarFire SoC Video kit (MPFS250TS-1FCG1152I).
The reference design for the PolarFire SoC video kit is available in the
following GitHub repository: [PolarFire® SoC Video Kit Reference Design.](https://github.com/polarfire-soc/polarfire-soc-video-kit-reference-design)

The steps mentioned [here](https://github.com/polarfire-soc/polarfire-soc-video-kit-reference-design)
can be used to generate a *FlashPro Express* job file from above mentioned tcl
script.

This project provides build configurations and debug launchers as explained [here](https://mi-v-ecosystem.github.io/redirects/repo-polarfire-soc-bare-metal-examples)

## Configurations

- **PolarFire User Crypto Driver Configuration**
   - **config_user.h** is a custom configuration file for PolarFire SoC CAL
     library. Following are the recommended configuration for config_user.h file.
      
      - Define **g_user_crypto_base_address** global variable as shown below.
        This will used to configure the **PKX0_BASE** (defined in config_user.h)
        and to connect to the User Crypto Co-processor in the Libero design.

     `uint32_t g_user_crypto_base_addr  0x22000000UL;`

      - **SAT_LITTLE_ENDIAN** - Endianness of the processor executing CAL
        Library customization definitions. These definitions enable the
        respective cryptographic services in the CAL which are supported by the
        User Crypto Processor. It is recommended that these definitions are not
        removed or changed unless required. 

   - A symbol INC_STDINT_H is defined in project preprocessor setting. For more
     detail, please refer to caltypes.h file present in CAL folder.

**NOTE:**
   1. If you try to enter data values other than 0 - 9, a - f, A - F, an error 
      message will be displayed on the serial terminal.
   2. You must enter all input data as whole bytes. If you enter the 128-bit
      key {1230...0} as 0x12 0x3 and press return, this will be treated as
      byte0 = 0x12, byte1 = 0x30, byte2-127 = 0x00.

## Macro Script

A macro script is provided with this example which automatically enters the NIST
vectors and associated data to verify the functionality. You can use
ecdsa_services.ttl Tera Term Macro script present in project directory for testing
Crypto ECDSA Services example project.

**NOTE:**
1. Tera Term Macros don’t work with Windows 10 build 14393.0. You should update
   to Windows 10 build 14393.0.105 or [later.](https://osdn.net/ticket/browse.php?group_id=1412&tid=36526) 
2. Before running Tera Term Macro script, set language as English 
   (Setup->General->Language). Also setup transmit delay in (Setup->Serial port)
   to 5msec/char and 5msec/line.
3. By default, Tera Term log will be stored in Tera Term installation Directory.

## Silicon Revision Dependencies

This example is tested on PolarFire SoC Video kit (MPFS250TS-1FCG1152I).

## CAL Library Src

The CAL source code is bound by license agreement. If you need access to the CAL
source code, please contact FPGA_marketing@microchip.com for further details on
NDA requirements.