# PolarFire SoC MSS User Crypto DSA Services Example

This example project demonstrates the usage of the User Crypto hardware block for 
the signature generation and verification using DSA service functions. It uses

 - CALDSASignHash() is used to generate digital signature.
 - CALDSAVerifyHash() is used to verify the digital signature.

    
## How to use this example

On connecting PolarFire SoC Video kit J12 to the host PC, you should see 4 COM
port interfaces connected. To use this project configure the COM port
**interface1** as below:
 - 115200 baud
 - 8 data bits
 - 1 stop bit
 - no parity
 - no flow control

Run the example project using a debugger. A greeting message will appear over the 
UART terminal followed by a menu system and instructions. This program displays
the return data from User Crypto processor for digital signature generation and
verification services. This program also displays the return data from User
Crypto processor i.e.digital signature generation and verification.

### Generate Digital Signature

Select option '1' to generate a digital signature for DSA public-key cryptographic
service. The signature generation function take following parameters as an input. 
1. *msg* -: message string 
2. *G* -: A generator point
3. *K* -: A random per message parameter. 
4. *modulus P* -: A prime number P  
4. *modulus Q* -: A prime number Q  
5. *private_key X* -: private key to encrypt the message.

The **CALDSASignHash()** function performs signature generation and after the 
successful generation program displays a success message along with 
generated signature set {R,S} on the UART terminal. 

### Verify Digital Signature

Select option '2' to verify the digital signature set {R,S} generated by DSA
public key cryptographic services. The program takes a public key to verify the
message signature along with other domain parameters. The **CALDSAVerifyHash()**
function performs DSA signature verification and after successful completion it
returns the result of verification process,an appropriate message will be
displayed on the UART terminal based on the returned result. 

**NOTE:** 
The DSA signature Generation operation should be executed before executing DSA
signature verification operation.

## Target Hardware

This example project is targeted at PolarFire SoC Video kit (MPFS250TS-1FCG1152I).
The reference design for the PolarFire SoC video kit is available in the
following GitHub repository: [PolarFire® SoC Video Kit Reference Design.](https://github.com/polarfire-soc/polarfire-soc-video-kit-reference-design)

The steps mentioned [here](https://github.com/polarfire-soc/polarfire-soc-video-kit-reference-design)
can be used to generate a *FlashPro Express* job file from above mentioned tcl
script.

This project provides build configurations and debug launchers as explained [here](https://mi-v-ecosystem.github.io/redirects/repo-polarfire-soc-bare-metal-examples)

## Configurations

- **PolarFire User Crypto Driver Configuration**
   - **config_user.h** is a custom configuration file for PolarFire SoC CAL
     library. Following are the recommended configuration for config_user.h file.
      
      - Define **g_user_crypto_base_address** global variable as shown below.
        This will used to configure the **PKX0_BASE** (defined in config_user.h)
        and to connect to the User Crypto Co-processor in the Libero design.

     `uint32_t g_user_crypto_base_addr  0x22000000UL;`

      - **SAT_LITTLE_ENDIAN** - Endianness of the processor executing CAL
        Library customization definitions. These definitions enable the
        respective cryptographic services in the CAL which are supported by the
        User Crypto Processor. It is recommended that these definitions are not
        removed or changed unless required. 

   - A symbol INC_STDINT_H is defined in project preprocessor setting. For more
     detail, please refer to caltypes.h file present in CAL folder.

**NOTE:**
   1. If you try to enter data values other than 0 - 9, a - f, A - F, an error 
      message will be displayed on the serial terminal.
   2. You must enter all input data as whole bytes. If you enter the 128-bit
      key {1230...0} as 0x12 0x3 and press return, this will be treated as
      byte0 = 0x12, byte1 = 0x30, byte2-127 = 0x00.

## Macro Script

A macro script is provided with this example which automatically enters the NIST
vectors and associated data to verify the functionality. You can use
DSA_Service.ttl Tera Term Macro script present in project directory for testing
DSA Signature Services example project.

**NOTE:**
1. Tera Term Macros don’t work with Windows 10 build 14393.0. You should update
   to Windows 10 build 14393.0.105 or [later.](https://osdn.net/ticket/browse.php?group_id=1412&tid=36526) 
2. Before running Tera Term Macro script, set language as English 
   (Setup->General->Language). Also setup transmit delay in (Setup->Serial port)
   to 5msec/char and 5msec/line.
3. By default, Tera Term log will be stored in Tera Term installation Directory.

## Silicon Revision Dependencies

This example is tested on PolarFire SoC Video kit (MPFS250TS-1FCG1152I).

## CAL Library Src

The CAL source code is bound by license agreement. If you need access to the CAL
source code, please contact FPGA_marketing@microchip.com for further details on
NDA requirements.